# Animation

Most properties on the Graphics Tool Standard shader can be animated using Unity's built-in [animation system](https://docs.unity3d.com/Manual/AnimationOverview.html). Materials which are used on [Unity UI](https://docs.unity3d.com/ScriptReference/CanvasRenderer.html) components do not expose their material properties to Unity's animation system by default (nor do they support [material property blocks](https://docs.unity3d.com/ScriptReference/MaterialPropertyBlock.html)). Graphics Tools contains a system to support the animation of Unity UI material properties.

The `GraphicsToolsStandardCanvasMaterialAnimator.cs` script exposes all material properties available in the Graphics Tools Standard shader. Adding this component to a UnityUI game object with a [CanvasRenderer](https://docs.unity3d.com/ScriptReference/CanvasRenderer.html) will expose material properties to Unity's animation system and will automatically update the correct material when animated.

> [!NOTE]
> `GraphicsToolsStandardCanvasMaterialAnimator.cs` only works with the Graphics Tool Standard shader. For additional shader support please see the advanced usage section below.

## Advanced Usage

If you inspect the contents of `GraphicsToolsStandardCanvasMaterialAnimator.cs` there is a lot of boilerplate code which could fall out of sync with the Graphics Tools Standard shader. Fortunately this code is auto generated by right clicking on a shader in the [project window](https://docs.unity3d.com/Manual/ProjectView.html) and selecting `Graphics Tools > Generate Canvas Material Animator`.

You can generate a canvas material animator for any shader your project needs to animate. Material properties will be updated at edit and run time.

> [!NOTE]
> By default canvas material animators operate on the renderer's shared material. If you would like the animation to only effect a single material you can select the "Instance Materials" property on the canvas material animator's inspector. This will allocate a new material for every instance with this option selected.
> 
> It is also worth noting that when animating shared materials at run time in the editor material updates may get serialized to disk. To avoid this Graphics Tools uses the `MaterialRestorer.cs` pattern.

## See also

* [Standard Shader](StandardShader.md)
